CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

<!-- Copyright (c) 2026 Brothertown Language -->
<!-- Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 -->
# Contributing to SNEA Online Shoebox Editor

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the SNEA Online Shoebox Editor. We welcome contributions from the community to help preserve and manage Southern New England Algonquian (SNEA) linguistic records.

## Ethics and Sovereignty

- **Nation Sovereignty**: This project is developed with respect for SNEA Nation sovereignty.
- **Terminology**: Use "Nation" instead of "Tribal" when referring to indigenous communities.
- **Inclusive Language**: Use respectful and inclusive English in all documentation and code comments.
- **AI Contributions**: All AI-assisted changes must be clearly marked.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the repository** on GitHub.
2. **Clone your fork** locally.
3. **Follow the Dedicated Initial Setup Guide** in [docs/development/SETUP.md](docs/development/SETUP.md) for a complete setup, or the **Local Development Guide** in [docs/development/local-development.md](docs/development/local-development.md) if you only need to run the app locally.
4. **Note**: If the infrastructure is already set up, you only need to perform the "Local Environment Initialization" steps.

## Code Standards

- **Copyright Headers**: All `.py` (Python) and `.md` (Markdown) source files must include the mandatory copyright header:
    - Python: `# Copyright (c) 2026 Brothertown Language`
    - Markdown: `<!-- Copyright (c) 2026 Brothertown Language -->`
- **MDF Data**: Data must strictly follow MDF (Multi-Dictionary Form) standards.
- **Linting**: We use `ruff` for code linting and formatting. It is recommended to install the `ruff` plugin in your IDE (e.g., PyCharm, VS Code).
- Code is automatically formatted on commit via `pre-commit`. To set this up, run:
  ```bash
  pre-commit install
  ```

## Testing

Before submitting a Pull Request, ensure all tests pass.

```bash
uv run python -m unittest discover tests
```

## Pull Request Process

1. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix.
2. Ensure your code follows the existing style and conventions.
3. Update documentation if your changes introduce new features or change existing behavior. Note that all documentation contributions are licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0.
4. Submit a Pull Request to the `main` branch.
5. All PRs will be reviewed by the maintainers.

## Documentation

- **Roadmap & Setup**: [docs/development/roadmap.md](docs/development/roadmap.md)
- **Local Development**: [docs/development/local-development.md](docs/development/local-development.md)
- **MDF Guidelines**: [docs/mdf/](docs/mdf/)
- **AI Guidelines**: [.junie/guidelines.md](.junie/guidelines.md)

Commit message:

What a nigtmare: Add logout functionality and session state cleanup
- Implemented a dedicated `logout` page (`logout.py`) to handle session and cookie cleanup before redirecting to the root.
- Added global constant for GitHub auth token cookie (`GH_AUTH_TOKEN_COOKIE`) in `constants.py`.
- Introduced `reload_page_at_root` utility in `ui_utils.py` for safe root-level navigation and cookie purging.
- Updated navigation and session state logic across multiple pages (e.g., `app.py`, `login.py`) to align with the new logout workflow.
- Enhanced `auth_utils.py` with streamlined identity checks and a dedicated `is_identity_synchronized` function.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

<!-- Copyright (c) 2026 Brothertown Language -->
<!-- Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 -->
# Contributing to SNEA Online Shoebox Editor

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the SNEA Online Shoebox Editor. We welcome contributions from the community to help preserve and manage Southern New England Algonquian (SNEA) linguistic records.

## Ethics and Sovereignty

- **Nation Sovereignty**: This project is developed with respect for SNEA Nation sovereignty.
- **Terminology**: Use "Nation" instead of "Tribal" when referring to indigenous communities.
- **Inclusive Language**: Use respectful and inclusive English in all documentation and code comments.
- **AI Contributions**: All AI-assisted changes must be clearly marked.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the repository** on GitHub.
2. **Clone your fork** locally.
3. **Follow the Dedicated Initial Setup Guide** in [docs/development/SETUP.md](docs/development/SETUP.md) for a complete setup, or the **Local Development Guide** in [docs/development/local-development.md](docs/development/local-development.md) if you only need to run the app locally.
4. **Note**: If the infrastructure is already set up, you only need to perform the "Local Environment Initialization" steps.

## Development Workflow

- We use `uv` for dependency management.
- Frontend and Backend are built with [Streamlit](https://streamlit.io/).
- Data must strictly follow MDF (Multi-Dictionary Form) standards.
- We use `ruff` for code linting and formatting. It is recommended to install the `ruff` plugin in your IDE (e.g., PyCharm, VS Code).
- Code is automatically formatted on commit via `pre-commit`. To set this up, run:
  ```bash
  pre-commit install
  ```

## Testing

Before submitting a Pull Request, ensure all tests pass.

```bash
uv run python -m unittest discover tests
```

## Pull Request Process

1. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix.
2. Ensure your code follows the existing style and conventions.
3. Update documentation if your changes introduce new features or change existing behavior. Note that all documentation contributions are licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0.
4. Submit a Pull Request to the `main` branch.
5. All PRs will be reviewed by the maintainers.

## Documentation

- **Roadmap & Setup**: [docs/development/roadmap.md](docs/development/roadmap.md)
- **Local Development**: [docs/development/local-development.md](docs/development/local-development.md)
- **MDF Guidelines**: [docs/mdf/](docs/mdf/)
- **AI Guidelines**: [.junie/guidelines.md](.junie/guidelines.md)
