docs/development/roadmap.md, before:

<!-- Copyright (c) 2026 Brothertown Language -->
<!-- Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 -->
## Overview

This document outlines the implementation plan for the **SNEA Shoebox Editor**, a 100% Python-based web application for
collaborative, version-controlled editing of linguistic records from across Southern New England Algonquian (SNEA) languages.

---

## Setup & Deployment Flow

To ensure a reliable and free deployment, the project uses **Streamlit Community Cloud** paired with **Aiven**.

### Phase 1: Infrastructure Setup [COMPLETED]

Before initializing the project, you must set up the hosting and database platforms.

1.  **Aiven Setup (Database)**:
    - Create a free account at [Aiven](https://aiven.io/).
    - Create a new PostgreSQL service.
    - Select a free plan (available in various regions including AWS US-East-1). Note that the PostgreSQL 17 free tier (EOL: 8 November 2029) includes 1 CPU, 1 GB RAM, 1 GB storage, and is limited to 20 maximum connections. Maintenance is scheduled for Wednesdays after 06:10:45 UTC.
    - Once the service is running, find your **Connection URI** in the Aiven console.
    - Save this connection string for the next step.
    - **Capability Check**: The `vector` (pgvector) extension has been enabled in the production instance.
2.  **GitHub OAuth Setup**:
    - Go to your GitHub [**Developer settings > OAuth Apps > New OAuth App**](https://github.com/settings/applications/new).
    - **Application Name**: `SNEA Shoebox Editor`
    - **Homepage URL**: `https://snea-edit.streamlit.app`
    - **Authorization callback URL**: `https://snea-edit.streamlit.app`
    - Generate a **Client Secret** and save both the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**.
3.  **Streamlit Community Cloud Setup**:
    - Sign in to [Streamlit Community Cloud](https://share.streamlit.app/) with your GitHub account.
    - Click **Create app** and select your private GitHub repository.
    - In the app settings, go to **Secrets** and paste the following (replacing with your actual values):
      ```toml
      [connections.postgresql]
      url = "postgresql://avnadmin:[YOUR-PASSWORD]@[YOUR-SERVICE-NAME]-[YOUR-PROJECT-NAME].aivencloud.com:[YOUR-PORT]/defaultdb?sslmode=require"

      [github_oauth]
      client_id = "YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID"
      client_secret = "YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET"
      redirect_uri = "https://snea-edit.streamlit.app"
      cookie_secret = "a-random-secret-string"

      # [FUTURE FEATURE]
      # [embedding]
      # model_id = "BAAI/bge-m3"
      # api_key = "hf_your_token_here"
      ```

### Phase 2: Local Development Setup [COMPLETED]

1.  **Connectivity Checks**:
    - The application now includes built-in DNS and socket reachability checks for the database, including both IPv4 and IPv6 support.
    - Note: IPv6 connectivity might fail on local networks that do not fully support IPv6 or have specific firewall rules, while still working in the Streamlit Cloud environment.
    - Verify these on the system status page BEFORE troubleshooting SQL connection issues.

2.  **Initialize Environment**:
    - Clone the repository.
    - **Local PostgreSQL**: The app will automatically start a local PostgreSQL instance using `pgserver` if no `DATABASE_URL` or secret is provided. Data is stored in `tmp/local_db`.
    - (Optional) If you want to use a specific database, create a `.streamlit/secrets.toml` file (ignored by git):
      ```toml
      [connections.postgresql]
      # For Aiven or existing local DB
      url = "YOUR_DB_CONNECTION_URI"

      [github_oauth]
      client_id = "YOUR_LOCAL_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID"
      client_secret = "YOUR_LOCAL_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET"
      redirect_uri = "http://localhost:8501"
      cookie_secret = "a-random-secret-string"

      # [FUTURE FEATURE]
      # [embedding]
      # model_id = "BAAI/bge-m3"
      # api_key = "hf_your_token_here"
      ```
    - Note: You should create a separate GitHub OAuth App for local development with `http://localhost:8501` as the callback URL.
2.  **Install Dependencies**:
    ```bash
    uv sync
    ```
3.  **Run Locally**:
    ```bash
    uv run streamlit run src/frontend/app.py
    ```

---

## Architecture Details

### 1. Frontend & Backend (Streamlit)

- **Platform**: Streamlit Community Cloud (connected to private GitHub repo).
- **Execution**: Server-side Python execution.
- **UI**: Standard Streamlit components for a responsive, reactive interface.
- **Authentication**: `streamlit-oauth` for GitHub OAuth flow.

### 2. Database (Aiven / PostgreSQL)

- **Platform**: Aiven (PostgreSQL).
- **Connection**: `st.connection("postgresql", type="sql")`.
- **Persistence**: Data survives app reboots and is shared across all users.

### 3. Data Layer

- **Format**: MDF (Multi-Dictionary Formatter).
- **Schema**: Tables for `sources`, `records`, `users`, `permissions`.
- **NFD Sorting**: Records are sorted by their extracted headword (\lx) using NFD normalization.

---

## Feature Roadmap (Upcoming)

### Phase 3: Migration to PostgreSQL [PENDING]
- Port existing SQLite/D1 logic to SQLAlchemy/PostgreSQL.
- Implement schema initialization in Aiven.
- Migrate existing Natick/Trumbull data to the new database.

### Phase 4: GitHub OAuth Integration [IN PROGRESS]
- Implement the login flow using `streamlit-oauth`.
- Verify user membership in authorized teams/orgs.
- Securely store session state.

### Phase 5: Search & Discovery [PENDING]
- Implement full-text search (FTS) using PostgreSQL's native capabilities.
- **[IN PROGRESS]** Leverage `pgvector` on Aiven for semantic search (Hugging Face integration).
    - *Note: Semantic search capability (pgvector) has been enabled in both local and production environments.*

### Phase 6: Quality Control & Audit [PENDING]
- Implementation of the 'approved' status to flag records as vetted.
- Admin portal for user management and audit logs.

Commit message:

docs: align local and prod PostgreSQL targeting v16.2. Updated documentation to mandate PostgreSQL 16.2 compatibility for all development, reflecting the version discrepancy between local pgserver (16.2) and production Aiven (17.7). Updated README, roadmap, and project context guidelines.

docs/development/roadmap.md, after:

<!-- Copyright (c) 2026 Brothertown Language -->
<!-- Licensed under CC BY-SA 4.0 -->
## Overview

This document outlines the implementation plan for the **SNEA Shoebox Editor**, a 100% Python-based web application for
collaborative, version-controlled editing of linguistic records from across Southern New England Algonquian (SNEA) languages.

---

## Setup & Deployment Flow

To ensure a reliable and free deployment, the project uses **Streamlit Community Cloud** paired with **Aiven**.

### Phase 1: Infrastructure Setup [COMPLETED]

Before initializing the project, you must set up the hosting and database platforms.

1.  **Aiven Setup (Database)**:
    - Create a free account at [Aiven](https://aiven.io/).
    - Create a new PostgreSQL service.
    - Select a free plan (available in various regions including AWS US-East-1). Note that the PostgreSQL 17 free tier (EOL: 8 November 2029) includes 1 CPU, 1 GB RAM, 1 GB storage, and is limited to 20 maximum connections. Maintenance is scheduled for Wednesdays after 06:10:45 UTC.
    - Once the service is running, find your **Connection URI** in the Aiven console.
    - Save this connection string for the next step.
    - **Capability Check**: The `vector` (pgvector) extension has been enabled in the production instance.
2.  **GitHub OAuth Setup**:
    - Go to your GitHub [**Developer settings > OAuth Apps > New OAuth App**](https://github.com/settings/applications/new).
    - **Application Name**: `SNEA Shoebox Editor`
    - **Homepage URL**: `https://snea-edit.streamlit.app`
    - **Authorization callback URL**: `https://snea-edit.streamlit.app`
    - Generate a **Client Secret** and save both the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**.
3.  **Streamlit Community Cloud Setup**:
    - Sign in to [Streamlit Community Cloud](https://share.streamlit.app/) with your GitHub account.
    - Click **Create app** and select your private GitHub repository.
    - In the app settings, go to **Secrets** and paste the following (replacing with your actual values):
      ```toml
      [connections.postgresql]
      url = "postgresql://avnadmin:[YOUR-PASSWORD]@[YOUR-SERVICE-NAME]-[YOUR-PROJECT-NAME].aivencloud.com:[YOUR-PORT]/defaultdb?sslmode=require"

      [github_oauth]
      client_id = "YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID"
      client_secret = "YOUR_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET"
      redirect_uri = "https://snea-edit.streamlit.app"
      cookie_secret = "a-random-secret-string"

      # [FUTURE FEATURE]
      # [embedding]
      # model_id = "BAAI/bge-m3"
      # api_key = "hf_your_token_here"
      ```

### Phase 2: Local Development Setup [COMPLETED]

1.  **Connectivity Checks**:
    - The application now includes built-in DNS and socket reachability checks for the database, including both IPv4 and IPv6 support.
    - Note: IPv6 connectivity might fail on local networks that do not fully support IPv6 or have specific firewall rules, while still working in the Streamlit Cloud environment.
    - Verify these on the system status page BEFORE troubleshooting SQL connection issues.

2.  **Initialize Environment**:
    - Clone the repository.
    - **Local PostgreSQL**: The app will automatically start a local PostgreSQL 16.2 instance using `pgserver` if no `DATABASE_URL` or secret is provided. Data is stored in `tmp/local_db`. All development must target PostgreSQL 16.2 compatibility.
    - (Optional) If you want to use a specific database, create a `.streamlit/secrets.toml` file (ignored by git):
      ```toml
      [connections.postgresql]
      # For Aiven or existing local DB
      url = "YOUR_DB_CONNECTION_URI"

      [github_oauth]
      client_id = "YOUR_LOCAL_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID"
      client_secret = "YOUR_LOCAL_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET"
      redirect_uri = "http://localhost:8501"
      cookie_secret = "a-random-secret-string"

      # [FUTURE FEATURE]
      # [embedding]
      # model_id = "BAAI/bge-m3"
      # api_key = "hf_your_token_here"
      ```
    - Note: You should create a separate GitHub OAuth App for local development with `http://localhost:8501` as the callback URL.
2.  **Install Dependencies**:
    ```bash
    uv sync
    ```
3.  **Run Locally**:
    ```bash
    uv run streamlit run src/frontend/app.py
    ```

---

## Architecture Details

### 1. Frontend & Backend (Streamlit)

- **Platform**: Streamlit Community Cloud (connected to private GitHub repo).
- **Execution**: Server-side Python execution.
- **UI**: Standard Streamlit components for a responsive, reactive interface.
- **Authentication**: `streamlit-oauth` for GitHub OAuth flow.

### 2. Database (Aiven / PostgreSQL)

- **Platform**: Aiven (PostgreSQL).
- **Connection**: `st.connection("postgresql", type="sql")`.
- **Persistence**: Data survives app reboots and is shared across all users.

### 3. Data Layer

- **Format**: MDF (Multi-Dictionary Formatter).
- **Schema**: Tables for `sources`, `records`, `users`, `permissions`.
- **NFD Sorting**: Records are sorted by their extracted headword (\lx) using NFD normalization.

---

## Feature Roadmap (Upcoming)

### Phase 3: Migration to PostgreSQL [PENDING]
- Port existing SQLite/D1 logic to SQLAlchemy/PostgreSQL.
- Implement schema initialization in Aiven.
- Migrate existing Natick/Trumbull data to the new database.

### Phase 4: GitHub OAuth Integration [IN PROGRESS]
- Implement the login flow using `streamlit-oauth`.
- Verify user membership in authorized teams/orgs.
- Securely store session state.

### Phase 5: Search & Discovery [PENDING]
- Implement full-text search (FTS) using PostgreSQL's native capabilities.
- **[IN PROGRESS]** Leverage `pgvector` on Aiven for semantic search (Hugging Face integration).
    - *Note: Semantic search capability (pgvector) has been enabled in both local and production environments.*

### Phase 6: Quality Control & Audit [PENDING]
- Implementation of the 'approved' status to flag records as vetted.
- Admin portal for user management and audit logs.
