.junie/project-architecture.md, before:

<!-- Copyright (c) 2026 Brothertown Language -->
<!-- 🚨 SUPREME DIRECTIVE: NO EDITS WITHOUT EXPLICIT APPROVAL ("Go", "Proceed", "Approved") 🚨 -->

# Project Architecture and Linguistic Context

## 1. MANDATORY PLAN APPROVAL
- **ZERO-TOLERANCE:** All technical execution is secondary to the Authorization Gate. Never modify ANY file without an approved plan. See `.junie/guidelines.md`.

## 2. Project Overview and Ethics

### IDENTITY AND PURPOSE
The SNEA Online Shoebox Editor is a collaborative platform for editing Southern New England Algonquian (SNEA) language records in MDF format.
- **FOCUS:** Natick, Mohegan-Pequot, Narragansett, and related SNEA languages.
- **ETHICS:** 
    - Respect Nation Sovereignty. 
    - Use "Nation" instead of "Tribal."
    - Clearly mark AI contributions.

### TECH STACK
- **LANGUAGE:** 100% Python.
- **UI:** Streamlit (Server-side execution).
- **DATABASE:** PostgreSQL (Aiven in Prod, `pgserver` in Dev).
- **AUTH:** GitHub OAuth.
- **PACKAGE MANAGER:** `uv` (Mandatory).

---

## 2. Architecture Details

### APPLICATION STRUCTURE
- **UNIFIED APP:** Integrated frontend and backend logic.
- **LEGACY PATH:** `src/frontend/app.py` is the mandatory entry point for Streamlit Cloud.
- **DATA PERSISTENCE:** Aiven PostgreSQL (v17.7 prod, v16.2 dev compatible).

### UI LAYOUT PATTERN — SIDEBAR CONTROLS
When a page enters a **dedicated review or detail view**, all controls
(navigation, pagination, bulk actions, filters) MUST be placed in
`st.sidebar`.  The main panel is reserved exclusively for the primary
content (e.g. record comparisons, data displays).  This maximises
screen real estate for the content the user needs to inspect.

- Use `with st.sidebar:` to group all control widgets.
- Include a "← Back to …" button in the sidebar for view navigation.
- **Hide the main navigation menu** by calling `hide_sidebar_nav()`
  at the top of the view function.  The sidebar must show only
  controls relevant to the current view — no global nav links.
- **Prefer icons to text for common actions**: For frequent or
  repetitive UI actions such as "Edit", "Reassign", "Delete",
  "Download", etc., use icon-only buttons (or buttons with
  prominent icons) to conserve space and prevent text wrapping, 
  especially in dense table views.
- Logout is handled by the global Streamlit navigation and does not
  need to be duplicated, but the sidebar should be self-contained for
  all page-specific controls.

### DATA LAYER (MDF)
- **STANDARD:** Multi-Dictionary Formatter (MDF).
- **CORE HIERARCHY:** `\lx` (Lexeme) -> `\ps` (Part of Speech) -> `\ge` (Gloss).
- **COMPATIBILITY:** Target PostgreSQL 16.2 features for alignment between dev and prod.

---

## 3. Linguistic Context (SNEA/MDF)

### MDF TAGS AND STRUCTURE
- `\lx`: Headword.
- `\ps`: Part of Speech (AI, II, TA, TI, N, etc.).
- `\ge`: English Gloss (for headword or inflection).
- `\de`: Full definition.
- `\inf`: Inflected surface form.
- `\infg`: Inflectional features (person→object, order, mode, etc.).
- `\morph`: Morphological segmentation of the inflected form.
- `\dt`: Date of last update.
- **VALIDATION:** System provides advisory visual hints; linguists have final authority.

### ENCODING PRINCIPLES
- **ONE LEXEME PER ENTRY:** Each lexical entry corresponds to one lexeme.
- **HEADWORD IN `\lx`:** The citation form is stored in `\lx`.
- **INFLECTIONS INSIDE SAME RECORD:** Inflected forms are stored inside the same record as repeated `\inf` blocks, not as separate entries.
- **INFLECTIONAL SPACE:** Reflect person, object, animacy, obviation, order, and mode.

### INFLECTION BLOCK CONVENTION
Each `\inf` should be followed by its own `\ge`, `\infg`, and `\morph` block:
```
\inf  niwîcihâw
\ge   I help him
\infg 1→3 IND
\morph ni- + wîcihê- + -âw
```

### NOTATION STANDARDS
- **PERSON→OBJECT:** `1→3`, `3→2`, `3→3'`, `1PL.EXCL→3`.
- **ORDER/MODE:** `IND` (Indicative), `CONJ` (Conjunct), `IMP` (Imperative).
- **NUMBER:** `SG`, `PL`.

### SNEA CONTEXT
- Work involves historical records and contemporary documentation.
- Cultural sensitivity is paramount in all technical and linguistic implementations.

Commit message:

**docs: update guidelines and log communication-related violation**
- Add new communication standards (v7.5) across guidelines, workflow, and operational standards.
  - Prohibit raw code blobs and enforce "Focused Overview" conceptual descriptions.
  - Introduce spacing rules for MDF records and MDF filenames in text exports.
  - Mandate lazy execution patterns with updated performance rules.
- Log a new violation (#21) for unauthorized code blob usage in chat dialogue.
- Synchronize updates in `VIOLATION_LOG.md`, `LONG_TERM_MEMORY.md`, and related documentation.

.junie/project-architecture.md, after:

<!-- Copyright (c) 2026 Brothertown Language -->
<!-- 🚨 SUPREME DIRECTIVE: NO EDITS WITHOUT EXPLICIT APPROVAL ("Go", "Proceed", "Approved") 🚨 -->

# Project Architecture and Linguistic Context

## 1. MANDATORY PLAN APPROVAL
- **ZERO-TOLERANCE:** All technical execution is secondary to the Authorization Gate. Never modify ANY file without an approved plan. See `.junie/guidelines.md`.

## 2. Project Overview and Ethics

### IDENTITY AND PURPOSE
The SNEA Online Shoebox Editor is a collaborative platform for editing Southern New England Algonquian (SNEA) language records in MDF format.
- **FOCUS:** Natick, Mohegan-Pequot, Narragansett, and related SNEA languages.
- **ETHICS:** 
    - Respect Nation Sovereignty. 
    - Use "Nation" instead of "Tribal."
    - Clearly mark AI contributions.

### TECH STACK
- **LANGUAGE:** 100% Python.
- **UI:** Streamlit (Server-side execution).
- **DATABASE:** PostgreSQL (Aiven in Prod, `pgserver` in Dev).
- **AUTH:** GitHub OAuth.
- **PACKAGE MANAGER:** `uv` (Mandatory).

---

## 2. Architecture Details

### APPLICATION STRUCTURE
- **UNIFIED APP:** Integrated frontend and backend logic.
- **LEGACY PATH:** `src/frontend/app.py` is the mandatory entry point for Streamlit Cloud.
- **DATA PERSISTENCE:** Aiven PostgreSQL (v17.7 prod, v16.2 dev compatible).

### UI LAYOUT PATTERN — SIDEBAR CONTROLS
When a page enters a **dedicated review or detail view**, all controls
(navigation, pagination, bulk actions, filters) MUST be placed in
`st.sidebar`.  The main panel is reserved exclusively for the primary
content (e.g. record comparisons, data displays).  This maximises
screen real estate for the content the user needs to inspect.

- Use `with st.sidebar:` to group all control widgets.
- Include a "← Back to …" button in the sidebar for view navigation.
- **Hide the main navigation menu** by calling `hide_sidebar_nav()`
  at the top of the view function.  The sidebar must show only
  controls relevant to the current view — no global nav links.
- **Prefer icons to text for common actions**: For frequent or
  repetitive UI actions such as "Edit", "Reassign", "Delete",
  "Download", etc., use icon-only buttons (or buttons with
  prominent icons) to conserve space and prevent text wrapping, 
  especially in dense table views.
- Logout is handled by the global Streamlit navigation and does not
  need to be duplicated, but the sidebar should be self-contained for
  all page-specific controls.

### DATA LAYER (MDF)
- **STANDARD:** Multi-Dictionary Formatter (MDF).
- **RECORD SPACING:** Double blank lines (`\n\n`) MUST be used as the separator between individual MDF records in all text files and exports.
- **CORE HIERARCHY:** `\lx` (Lexeme) -> `\ps` (Part of Speech) -> `\ge` (Gloss).
- **COMPATIBILITY:** Target PostgreSQL 16.2 features for alignment between dev and prod.

---

## 3. Linguistic Context (SNEA/MDF)

### MDF TAGS AND STRUCTURE
- `\lx`: Headword.
- `\ps`: Part of Speech (AI, II, TA, TI, N, etc.).
- `\ge`: English Gloss (for headword or inflection).
- `\de`: Full definition.
- `\inf`: Inflected surface form.
- `\infg`: Inflectional features (person→object, order, mode, etc.).
- `\morph`: Morphological segmentation of the inflected form.
- `\dt`: Date of last update.
- **VALIDATION:** System provides advisory visual hints; linguists have final authority.

### ENCODING PRINCIPLES
- **RECORD SPACING:** Double blank lines (`\n\n`) are mandatory between records.
- **ONE LEXEME PER ENTRY:** Each lexical entry corresponds to one lexeme.
- **HEADWORD IN `\lx`:** The citation form is stored in `\lx`.
- **INFLECTIONS INSIDE SAME RECORD:** Inflected forms are stored inside the same record as repeated `\inf` blocks, not as separate entries.
- **INFLECTIONAL SPACE:** Reflect person, object, animacy, obviation, order, and mode.

### INFLECTION BLOCK CONVENTION
Each `\inf` should be followed by its own `\ge`, `\infg`, and `\morph` block:
```
\inf  niwîcihâw
\ge   I help him
\infg 1→3 IND
\morph ni- + wîcihê- + -âw
```

### NOTATION STANDARDS
- **PERSON→OBJECT:** `1→3`, `3→2`, `3→3'`, `1PL.EXCL→3`.
- **ORDER/MODE:** `IND` (Indicative), `CONJ` (Conjunct), `IMP` (Imperative).
- **NUMBER:** `SG`, `PL`.

### SNEA CONTEXT
- Work involves historical records and contemporary documentation.
- Cultural sensitivity is paramount in all technical and linguistic implementations.
